In a genius three typology I have two roads Rodda one in Ratatouille which are connected to a hub which
in turn is connected to a cloud allowing me to have access to my local area network from these two routers.
I've also got a Cisco Iwate The late to switch which I haven't connected to other devices.
I'm going to talk briefly about locking down the console and then we'll discuss telnet and S-sh and
I'll use the same topology for those videos.
So firstly I've connected to the console of this Iowas the laity switch and when I press Enter I'm put
into user mode and then I can type enable to go to privilege mode.
So exit I'm shown that I'm on the console of the switch press enter and I'm in user mode the label and
then I'm taken to privilege mode with no authentication.
I wasn't asked for a password.
In this example I'm connecting to the console of a physical city 750 which when I press enter on put
into user mode.
And once again when I type enable I can go to privilege mode.
But in this example the switch is prompting for a password
so notice the user experience is the same on a physical switch versus a virtual switch running in Jeana's
3.
So as an example if I type enable password Cisco and then exit out of the switch press ENTER I mean
user mode top enable and now I have to enter a privileged password with a secret password to go to privileged
mode.
Same as a physical switch.
Notice please.
I was not prompted for a password to get to use the mode I was only prompted for a password when I typed
enable.
There is no password by default on the console of a switch.
Or Rodda show run shows a lot of configuration and if I scroll all the way down to the bottom I'll see
a line like this line console's 0.
So that's the console port or the switch.
I can put a password on that my typing password and specifying some kind of password.
So I'm going to say Cisco and then I'm going to type a log in to indicate that we using the password
on the line
not a local user name and password database.
So I'm going to say show run puppet begin con
where all the cons zero.
So as you can see this is the configuration on the console topped Poskitt Cisco and log top topics that
now we're a Precentor asked for a password to get to user mode and then enable will take me to privilege
mode.
Now I could create a local username and password database.
So let's do something like this.
That makes no difference however in the current configuration when logging out and pressing Enter I
still have to put in my password of Cisco to get to user mode and I have to put a password in to go
to global config mode.
And that's because at the moment the console is configured with postes which Cisco and Logan if I change
that to line console's Zehra and typed log in a local.
Notice the difference.
Now when I type exit and press ENTER I'm now asked for a username and password.
And now I gain access to the user mode and then I have to type enable and my enable password or secret
password to go to privileged mode.
I can change that again by typing user name David whatever the user is and using the privilege command
privilege and specifying the privileges of that user.
So exit out of here.
Precentor prompted for my username prompted for my password and notice I'm taken immediately to privilege
mode and that's because on the user in this case David a privilege of 15 was applied.
So the U.S. immediately gets full right to the switch upon logon.
We don't have to type enable and then password to go to the Nabl mode show run pipe begin line can line
conrod the notice line console 0 has the command pulse switch Cisco.
That's irrelevant now.
So I could actually remove that.
And that's because log in local is being used.
So show run pipe begin line con. all line can.
I've only got log in local on the line top exit press enter from my user name straight into privilege
mode
so the password on the line is only used if logging is used.
Notice if I don't have a password and I specify I log in I'm told that logging is disabled until a password
is sent.
So let's try that.
Precentor I'm straining to use a mode exit Precentor straight into user mode and I'm now AWST to enter
an enabled password so if I want to put that back to the way it was previously on the line console I
need to specify a password.
And now when I log in I'm asked for the password on the line as well as my privileged password.
So just to recap
logon indicates that a password on the line is required to gain access to the console of a Rotto switch.
If you don't specify a password logon is ignored and you go straight into user mode.
If you specify log in a local here the local user name and password database is used.
So you'd be asked for your user name as well as your password when logging into the console.
If you specify privilege and a privilege level you don't have to put an enable password in you taken
straight to the privilege level associated with your user account.
In this case it's 15 now.
If you want to play a trick on someone and I don't suggest you do this in production a console has an
exact time timeout in minutes and in seconds you could specify something like this.
So exec time up to a 0 1 means that it will timeout after 1 second.
So I noticed when I press enter and try and gain access to my router one second later I'm logged out.
So what you need to do to make this work or to fix this is you have to type very quickly or continually
press tab.
So I get a press tab with my one finger.
So it's continuously updated and then I'm going to try and type with my finger and try and specify the
commands required.
So as you can see I'm making a lot of typing mistakes but that's ok as long as I keep pressing tab.
So once again this is not something you want to do but if you do make a mistake you should specify 0
0 as an example which means don't timeout.
So now I'm not logged out of the con..
You probably want to set that to some value that's realistic for your environment.
So say five minutes after five minutes of inactivity you'll be logged out of the con..
Another great command on a router he's logging synchronous.
If I start typing a command like show IP interface brief you'll notice the command is all over the place
and I have to press tab to see my command.
So once again if I type confetti and press control Z and then top start typing Hello.
You'll notice it's all over the place.
Press tab.
My command is shown again.
So what we want to do is on the line console we want to use the command logging synchronous.
So line console is zero logging synchronous.
Notice the difference.
Now when I press control Z and then type hello hello is automatically retyped so it becomes a lot easier
to type commands and see what you're doing when you're getting a lot of output on the screen especially
when doing debugging.
So don't forget the logging synchronous option on the console.
It's going to save you a lot of trouble.